Ti={We.Handle} Privacy Policy

MessageToUser=02/Form/Web/Privacy/01.md

0.Sec={0.1.Sec}<br>{0.2.Sec}

0.1.Sec={We.Name.Full} ("{We.Handle}," "we", "us," "our,") provide {We.provide}. We are committed to maintaining the privacy, integrity and security of any personal information about our users. This Privacy Policy ("{Policy}") explains how we protect personal information we collect in connection with your use of the {Services}  and how we use and in some cases disclose that information. "{Personal_Information}" for purposes of {this_Policy} means information that identifies you, such as your name, address, phone number, fax number or email address.

We.provide={We.provide.what} {We.provide.how} {We.provide.for}

We.provide.what=online and mobile services, including but not limited to, the {We.Handle} website (the "{Site}") widgets, computer programs and mobile applications

We.provide.how=hosted by or on behalf of us (collectively, the "{Services}")

We.provide.for=intended to enhance your use of the sleep and body monitoring electronic products offered by us (the "{Products}")

0.2.Sec={This_Policy} is subject to the provisions our Terms of Use (the "{Terms_of_Use}"), which are incorporated by reference. To see the {Terms_of_Use} click here {ToU.href}.


1.Ti=What Personal Information We Collect

1.0.Sec={Products} work in conjunction with a user account on the {Site} (a "{User_Account}"). 

1.1.Sec=When you sign up for a {User_Account}, you are required to provide an email address (which will be used as your login ID) and to create an account password (collectively the "{Registration_Information}").

1.2.Sec=In order to benefit fully from the {Products} and {Services}, you can also add additional personal details to your {User_Account}, such as height, weight, gender, and age. 

1.3.Sec=Information that you add manually to one of the {Services} is stored in your {User_Account}.

1.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/03]

2.Ti=How We Use Your {Personal_Information}

2.0.Sec=Company uses your personal information to:

2.1.Sec=Provide you with the {Services};

2.2.Sec=Analyze {Site} usage and improve the {Services};

2.3.Sec=Deliver to you any administrative notices and communications relevant to your use of the {Products} and {Services};

2.4.Sec=Provide you with updates regarding {Products} and {Services};

2.5.Sec=Perform internal market research, project planning, troubleshooting problems, and to detect and protect against error, fraud or other criminal activity.

2.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/05]


3.Ti=Disclosure to Third Parties

3.1.Sec=At times we may make certain {Personal_Information} available to strategic partners that work with us to provide services to you.  In such cases, your account with such third party will continue to be subject to that third party's privacy policy and your {User_Account} will continue to be governed by {this_Policy}.

3.2.Sec=We may also share your personal information with companies who provide services to us such as information processing, order fulfillment, product delivery, customer data management, customer research and the like. These companies are obligated to protect your information and may be located wherever we do business.

3.3.Sec=We may also disclose information about you if we determine that disclosure is reasonably necessary to enforce our {Terms_of_Use} or protect our operations or users or if we are required to do so by any applicable law, rule, regulation, subpoena or other legal process. Additionally, in the event of a reorganization, merger, or sale we may transfer any and all personal information we collect to the relevant third party.

3.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/03]

4.Ti=Use of Aggregated Anonymous User Data

4.0.Sec=We may disclose non-personally identifiable aggregated user data, such as aggregated gender, age, height, weight, and usage data gathered from {Products} or {Services} (without the inclusion of a user's name or other identifying information) to:

4.1.Sec=Organizations approve that conduct consumer research into health and wellness;

4.2.Sec=Users of the {Services} for purposes of comparison of their personal health and wellness situation relative to the broader community; and

4.3.Sec=Advertisers and other third parties for their marketing and promotional purposes.

4.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/03]


5.Ti=Cookies and Other Technology

5.1.Sec=The {Services} may use "cookies" and other technologies such as pixel tags and web beacons.

5.2.Sec=Cookies are alphanumeric identifiers in the form of text files that are inserted and stored by your Web browser on your computer's hard drive. These technologies tell us which parts of our website you have visited, limit the number of times you see an offer, or help us better determine which offers you may like to see or to alert you to software compatibility issues. They are also used to analyze and improve the design and functionality of {Services}.

5.3.Sec=If you choose to delete cookies from your device or block them from being stored on your device, please note that the full functionality of the {Services} may not be available to you.

5.4.Sec="{Web_Beacons}" are images embedded in a Web page or email for the purpose of measuring and analyzing site usage and activity.  We, or third party service providers acting on our behalf, may use {Web_Beacons} to help us analyze {Site} usage and improve the {Services}.

5.5.Sec=We may use third party service providers to help us analyze certain online activities and improve our products and the {Services}. For example, these service providers may help us measure the performance of our online campaigns or analyze visitor activity on the {Site}. We may permit these service providers to use cookies and other technologies to perform these services for us. We do not share any personal information about our customers with these third party service providers, and these service providers do not collect such information on our behalf. Our third party service providers are required to comply fully with {this_Policy}.

5.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/05]
 
6.Ti=Information You Elect to Share With Others

6.sec=If you use a message board, blog, journal or any other method of posting user-generated content on the {Site} or through the {Services}, you should be aware that such information can be read, collected or used by others and could be used to send you unsolicited messages. We are not responsible for the personal information you choose to submit in these areas.

7.Ti=Surveys

7.sec=We may ask you to participate in surveys designed to help us improve the {Services}. Any personal information provided to us in connection with any survey will be used only in relation to that survey and as elsewhere set forth in {this_Policy}.

8.Ti=Children

8.sec=We do not knowingly collect any personal information from children under 13. If we discover that a child under the age of 13 has provided us with personally identifying information, we will take steps to delete the information as soon as possible.

9.Ti=Your Right to Delete Your Data

9.sec=If you would like to cancel your {User_Account} you may do so by emailing us at {We.Email}. When you request cancellation of your account, your personally identifiable information will be deleted, including but not limited your email address, name, and photo(s). Archival copies of your account information that exist within our back-up system will be deleted in accordance with our normal back-up expiration schedule. Following cancellation or termination of your account, we may continue to utilize de-identified and anonymized historical data associated with your use of the {Products} and {Services}. 

10.Ti=Email Communications From Us

10.1.Sec=We may provide you with summaries of your {User_Account} data and email alerts. We also allow you to subscribe to email newsletters and from time to time may transmit emails promoting {We.Handle} and third-party goods or services.

10.2.Sec=You have the ability to opt-out of receiving our weekly summaries and promotional emails and to terminate your newsletter subscriptions by following the instructions provided in such emails.

10.3.Sec=Opting out in this manner will not end transmission of service-related emails, such as email alerts.

10 =[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/03]
 
11.Ti=Data Security

11.1.Sec=We use a combination of firewall barriers, encryption techniques and authentication procedures, among others, to maintain the security of your data and to protect accounts and systems from unauthorized access.

11.2.Sec=When you register for the {Site}, we require a password from you for your privacy and security. This password is stored in an encrypted fashion on our systems.

11.3.Sec=It is important to understand that these precautions apply only to our {Site} and systems. We exercise no control over how your information is stored, maintained or displayed by third parties or on third-party sites.

11.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/03]

12.Ti=International Users

12.1.Sec={Services} are hosted and operated entirely in the United States and are subject to United States law. Any personal information that you provide to us is being provided to us solely in the United States and will be hosted on United States servers. You consent to the transfer of your personal information to the United States. If you are accessing the {Services} from outside the United States, please be advised that United States law may not offer the same privacy protections as the law of your jurisdiction.

12.2.Sec=If you have a security related concern, please contact us at {We.Email} or {We.Address}.

12.=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/02]

13.Ti=Updates to this Policy

13.sec=We may update {this_Policy} periodically. The date last revised appears at the bottom of {this_Policy}. Changes take effect immediately upon posting.


14.Ti=Contact us if you have any questions or concerns

14.sec=If you have questions, comments, concerns or feedback regarding {this_Policy} or any other privacy or security concern, send an e-mail to our support.

 
90.Sec=This policy was last updated on {Version.YMD}.  

DocBody={Doc}

=[01/Agt/Bit/Secs/14]

=[02/Sec/Defined_Terms/03.md]