Consumer_Product_Model_Distribution_Agt_Outline

<field>

/Parameters to be discussed
Resale.Territory={US.Medium}
Product.Doc.Language=English
Schedule @@@=Exhibit D
BuySell.Minimum.Initial.$=[TO BE DETERMINED]
BuySell.Minimum.Initial.Limit.Promo.Quantity=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Price.Promotion.Limit=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Price.Promotion.Discount=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Manufacturer.Ship.Base.Country=China
Term.End=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Dispute.Arb.Rules=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Dispute.Arb.Institute=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Dispute.Arb.Hearing.Place=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Dispute.Law.State.the=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Model_Agt_Notice.Pcpl;Cttr._Block=[TO BE DETERMINED]
Product_Manager=Community Manager
/Changes to the template agreement

RepWar.Product.Base._Sec=<u>Product Quality and Warranty</u>. Manufacturer grants to Distributor the limited warranties contained in the warranty terms for the Products, as modified from time to time by Manufacturer (“Product Warranty”). A copy of the current limited Product Warranty is attached as Exhibit C to this Agreement. Manufacturer reserves the right to modify the Product Warranty from time to time and shall notify Distributor of any material changes thereto. In the event of a problem warranted in the Product Warranty, Manufacturer shall accept return of the Product, at its expense and its risk of loss during shipment, and, in its sole discretion, shall replace the Products or refund the net purchase price to the customer or Distributor, as provided for in the then-current Product Warranty. Manufacturer is not responsible for breaches of the Product Warranty caused by use, operation or storage not in accordance with Manufacturer’s instructions, or unauthorized modification of a Product.

Ship.Base._Sec=<u>Shipment</u>. Manufacturer agrees to deliver the Products to the Carrier (as defined below) for shipment to Distributor. Title and risk for loss or damage shall pass to Distributor upon delivery of Products to the Carrier for shipment to Distributor and any loss or damage thereafter shall not relieve Distributor of any obligation hereunder. Distributor shall be responsible for selecting and making all arrangements for a carrier (the “Carrier”) to ship the Products from Manufacturer’s warehousing facility, which may be located in {Manufacturer.Ship.Base.Country}, to Distributor. <br>Shipping and insurance charges are at the expense of Distributor, as provided in Section 7.5.

Resale.Limit.Customer._Sec=

Price.Promotion._Sec=<u>Promotional Products</u>. In the first Contract Year, Distributor may purchase up to {Price.Promotion.Limit} Products in aggregate at a discount of {Price.Promotion.Discount} off the prices set forth in the then-current Exhibit A for Distributor’s use in performing Product demonstrations and promotions (“Promotional Units”). Any Promotional Units purchased through the Initial Stocking Order shall be counted as Promotional Units purchased in the first Contract Year.

Product.Package._Sec=<u>Product Packaging</u>. Products shall be shipped by Distributor to customers in Manufacturer’s standard packaging, which will include, in the {Product.Doc.Language} language, instructions for use and the Product Warranty. Distributor shall inform Manufacturer in writing without delay of all packaging and labeling requirements applicable in the Territory and of any changes to such requirements. Without the express, prior written consent of Manufacturer, Distributor shall not alter or modify in any manner any Product package or label, including the exterior or interior of any Product package, and shall not repackage any Product. Distributor shall store, transport and distribute the Products in accordance with all instructions in the Product packaging.

Resale.Service._Sec=<u>Service Support</u>. Distributor shall provide any Product service required by customers in the Territory and shall provide clinical and purchasing support to customers in the Territory for a period of twelve (12) months following the delivery of the Product to the customer, at Distributor’s sole cost and expense; provided, however, that Manufacturer shall bear the expense of any Product replacements that are made in accordance with the limited Product Warranty described in Section 11. Such support to customers within the Territory includes but is not limited to processing service and support requests of customers in the Territory and conducting Product demonstrations. Distributor shall report immediately to Manufacturer any defects or Product failures or faults that have been detected by Distributor or reported to Distributor by a customer. 

Resale.Manager._Sec=<u>Community Manager</u>. Distributor shall appoint and employ throughout the term of this Agreement a community manager (the “Community Manager”) who shall at all times be responsible for overseeing Distributor’s community management as well as sales, marketing and distribution of Manufacturer’s Products. The Community Manager’s responsibilities shall include attending Manufacturer’s comprehensive annual training on the Products. Distributor shall pay all costs and expenses associated with the Community Manager’s attendance at such annual training and other of the Community Manager’s responsibilities.

Firm R&G Euro;Med Distribution Agt Library

Affiliate._Def=“Affiliate” means a Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the first mentioned Person.
days._Def=“days” means calendar days, unless otherwise indicated.
Intended_Uses._Def=“Intended Uses” means the uses that Customers may make of the Products, and for which Distributor may sell Products, as described in {Schedule @@@}. 
Person._Def=“Person” means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity.
Subsidiary._Def=“Subsidiary” or “Subsidiaries” of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other legal entity of which such Person (either alone or through or together with any other subsidiary), owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the stock or other voting equity interests.
Def.Xref.Table._Sec=<u>Cross Reference Table</u>.The following terms are defined elsewhere in this Agreement in the Sections set forth below:<table><tr><th>Term</th><th>Section</th></tr><tr><td>Agreement</td><td>Recitals</td></tr><tr><td>Calendar Quarter</td><td>6.4</td></tr><tr><td>Carrier</td><td>9.1</td></tr><tr><td>Confidential Information</td><td>13</td></tr><tr><td>Contract Year</td><td>5.4</td></tr><tr><td>Discloser</td><td>13</td></tr><tr><td>Dispute</td><td>18.1</td></tr><tr><td>Distributor</td><td>Recitals</td></tr><tr><td>Effective Date</td><td>Recitals</td></tr><tr><td>Indemnified Parties</td><td>14.2</td></tr><tr><td>Indemnifying Party</td><td>14.2</td></tr><tr><td>Initial Stocking Order</td><td>5.1</td></tr><tr><td>License</td><td>2.2</td></tr><tr><td>Licensed Marks</td><td>12.2</td></tr><tr><td>Manufacturer</td><td>Recitals</td></tr><tr><td>Minimum Purchase Commitment</td><td>3.2</td></tr><tr><td>Notice of Dispute</td><td>18.1</td></tr><tr><td>Order(s)</td><td>8.1</td></tr><tr><td>Party (Parties)</td><td>Recitals</td></tr><tr><td>{Product_Manager}</td><td>6.8</td></tr><tr><td>Product Warranty</td><td>11.1</td></tr><tr><td>Products</td><td>3.3</td></tr><tr><td>Promotional Units</td><td>7.2</td></tr><tr><td>Quarterly Performance Objective(s)</td><td>5.3</td></tr><tr><td>Recipient</td><td>13</td></tr><tr><td>Returns</td><td>9.7</td></tr><tr><td>Tender</td><td>7.3</td></tr><tr><td>Termination Date</td><td>15</td></tr><tr><td>Territory</td><td>3.1</td></tr><tr><td>Territory Commitment</td><td>3.2</td></tr><tr><td>United States</td><td>Recitals</td></tr></table>


Product_Manager=Product Manager

Appoint._Sec=<u>Appointment</u>.  Manufacturer hereby appoints Distributor as its exclusive distributor, and Distributor accepts such appointment, to market, sell and distribute Products to customers within the Territory subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Distributor shall purchase and resell the Products for its own account and at its own risk; Distributor is not an agent or representative of Manufacturer for any purpose.  For purposes of this Agreement, the “Territory” means {Resale.Territory}.
Resale.Territory.Outside._Sec=<u>Sales Outside the Territory</u>.  Nothing in this Agreement shall give Distributor the right to advertise or market to or otherwise actively solicit orders for Products from customers located outside of the Territory.  Distributor agrees that it shall not directly or indirectly advertise or market Products to customers located outside the Territory or otherwise solicit or encourage customers located outside the Territory to submit orders for Products to the Distributor.  Distributor shall limit its marketing, advertising and solicitation activities to those designed to attract orders from customers who use or would use the Products for the Intended Uses.  Distributor acknowledges that Manufacturer does not have a license (the “License”) to market or sell Products for certain surgical applications, including but not limited to cardiac, ear, nose, and throat, and urologic surgery.  (The obligations of and limitations on Distributor under this {Section 2.2} are referred to collectively as Distributor’s “Territory Commitment”).

Product.Is._Sec=<u>Products</u>.  “Products” means the Medical Device Co. products listed on Exhibit A, including the accompanying accessories, instructions for use and other documentation and material provided by Manufacturer as a package with such products.  Products shall also include modified or updated versions of a Product that do not change the Product’s indications for use or materially modify the Product’s design.  Exhibit A shall be updated from time to time to include such modified or updated Products.

Product.Discontinue._Sec=<u>Discontinuation of Products</u>.  Manufacturer reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to determine what products it will produce and to cease manufacturing or supplying or to otherwise discontinue any Product or model or version of any Product.  If Manufacturer at any time ceases manufacturing or supplying or otherwise discontinues a particular Product or model or version of any Product, Manufacturer shall notify Distributor and shall not have any further obligation to supply any such Product or any such model or version of the Product to Distributor; provided, however, that confirmed Orders will be delivered as previously agreed by the Parties. 
Product.Add._Sec=<u>New or Additional Products</u>.  Upon mutual agreement of the Parties, other products of Manufacturer may be added to Exhibit A.  Upon the effective date of such change to Exhibit A, such additional products shall be deemed to be “Products” for purposes of this Agreement.  Any such change to Exhibit A, to be effective, must be in writing, signed by an authorized representative of each Party, and must specify the price at which such Products will be sold to Distributor, and the minimum dollar value of units of each additional Product to be purchased by Distributor in each Contract Year and Calendar Quarter during the remainder of the term of this Agreement, which shall be added to Exhibit B and deemed to be part of the Minimum Purchase Commitment and the Quarterly Performance Objective.
Product.Modify._Sec=<u>Product Modifications</u>.  Manufacturer may, in its sole discretion, modify any Product at any time, and from time to time, during the term of this Agreement.  Manufacturer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to inform Distributor in advance of any material modification; provided, however, that Manufacturer shall not incur any liability to Distributor for its failure to so notify Distributor.
Product.Package._Sec=<u>Product Packaging</u>.  Products shall be shipped by Distributor to customers in Manufacturer’s standard packaging, which will include, in the {Product.Doc.Language} language, instructions for use and the Product Warranty.  Distributor shall inform Manufacturer in writing without delay of all packaging and labeling requirements applicable in the Territory and of any changes to such requirements.  Without the express, prior written consent of Manufacturer, Distributor shall not alter or modify in any manner any Product package or label, including the exterior or interior of any Product package, and shall not repackage any Product.  Distributor shall store, transport and distribute the Products in accordance with all instructions in the Product packaging and shall take all necessary steps to prevent the sterility of the Products and Product packaging from being compromised.
3.	Exclusivity.
Relate.Exclusive.Engage._Sec=<u>Exclusivity</u>.  From the Effective Date and for so long as Distributor has complied with its Territory Commitment, has met or exceeded its Minimum Purchase Commitment during the prior Contract Year, and has met or exceeded its Quarterly Performance Objectives in two or more consecutive Calendar Quarters in a Contract Year, Distributor shall be Manufacturer’s exclusive distributor of Products to customers located within the Territory, and Manufacturer shall not: (a) solicit direct orders for Products from customers located within the Territory; or (b) grant to any other distributor the authority to advertise or market to or solicit sales orders for Products from customers located within the Territory.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the scope of Distributor’s exclusivity rights described above is limited to the advertising, marketing and sale of the Products for which Manufacturer has a License.

Relate.Exclusive.Stop._Sec=<u>Loss of Exclusivity and Other Remedies</u>.  If Distributor breaches its Territory Commitment, fails to meet or exceed its Minimum Purchase Commitment during any Contract Year or fails to meet or exceed its Quarterly Performance Objectives in two or more consecutive Calendar Quarters in any Contract Year, in addition to any other remedy that Manufacturer has under this Agreement, Manufacturer reserves the right to: (a) begin solicitation and fulfillment of direct orders for Products from customers located within the Territory; (b) appoint additional distributors to market or advertise to and solicit and fulfill sales orders for Products from customers located within the Territory; and (c) increase the prices at which Manufacturer sells Products to Distributor under this Agreement, up to a maximum of the then-current United States list prices.  Any election by Manufacturer not to exercise its rights under this Section shall not constitute a waiver of Manufacturer’s right to exercise such rights or any of its other rights at a later time.


4.	Minimum Purchasing Obligations.
BuySell.Minimum.Initial._Sec=<u>Initial Stocking Order</u>.  Upon signing this Agreement, Distributor shall submit to Manufacturer Orders for Products with an aggregate value of at least {BuySell.Minimum.Initial.$} (Distributor’s “Initial Stocking Order”), together with full payment for such Products.  The Initial Stocking Order shall not include more than {BuySell.Minimum.Initial.Limit.Promo.Quantity} units at the Promotional Units discount. 
BuySell.Minimum.Annual._Sec=<u>Minimum Purchase Commitment</u>.  The minimum dollar value of units of Products to be purchased and resold by Distributor in each Contract Year during the term of this Agreement (such minimum dollar value is referred to as Distributor’s “Minimum Purchase Commitment”) is expressed in Exhibit B.
BuySell.Minimum.Quarter._Sec=<u>Quarterly Performance Objectives</u>.  The minimum dollar value of units of Products to be purchased and resold by Distributor in each Calendar Quarter during the term of this Agreement (such minimum dollar value is referred to as Distributor’s “Quarterly Performance Objective”) is expressed in Exhibit B and is calculated based on Distributor’s Minimum Purchase Commitment for each Contract Year.

BuySell.Minimum.Orders._Sec=<u>Minimum Purchase Orders</u>.<ol><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Orders.Annual._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Orders.Quarter._Sec}</li></ol>

BuySell.Minimum.Orders.Annual._Sec=<u>Annual</u>.  From the Effective Date through December 31st of that same year, and for each Contract Year thereafter, Distributor shall purchase from Manufacturer, at a minimum, its Minimum Purchase Commitment.  Promotional Units purchased by Distributor in accordance with {Section 6.2} shall not be credited towards Distributor’s Minimum Purchase Commitment for that Contract Year.  The Initial Stocking Order, excluding Promotional Units, shall be credited towards the Minimum Purchase Commitment for the first Contract Year.  Product purchases shall be counted for purposes of the Minimum Purchase Commitment in the Contract Year in which Manufacturer delivers the Product to Carrier for shipment to Distributor.  Returned or rejected Products shall be deducted from the dollar value for the Contract Year in which the credit for the returned or rejected Product to Distributor was made.  Distributor shall not be deemed to have failed to meet its Minimum Purchase Commitment in a particular Contract Year, if Distributor submitted Orders to Manufacturer that meet or exceed its Minimum Purchase Commitment and the cause of Distributor’s failure to meet the Minimum Purchase Commitment is Manufacturer’s failure to deliver the Products in accordance with its obligations under {Section 8} and {Section 9}.  For purposes of this Agreement, a “Contract Year” shall mean a calendar year, except that the first Contract Year shall mean the period from the Effective Date through December 31st of that same year and the last Contract Year shall mean the period from January 1st of the year of the Termination Date through the Termination Date.

BuySell.Minimum.Orders.Quarter._Sec=<u>Quarterly</u>.  For each Calendar Quarter from the Effective Date through December 31st of that same year, and for each Calendar Quarter in each Contract Year thereafter, Distributor shall purchase from Manufacturer, at a minimum, its Quarterly Perfomance Objective.  Promotional Units purchased by Distributor in accordance with {Section 6.2} shall not be credited towards Distributor’s Quarterly Performance Objective for that Calendar Quarter.  The Initial Stocking Order, excluding Promotional Units, shall be credited towards the Quarterly Performance Objective for the first Calendar Quarter.  Product purchases shall be counted for purposes of the Quarterly Performance Objective in the Calendar Quarter in which Manufacturer delivers the Product to Carrier for shipment to Distributor.  Returned or rejected Products shall be deducted from the dollar value for the Calendar Quarter in which the credit for the returned or rejected Product to Distributor was made.  Distributor shall not be deemed to have failed to meet its Quarterly Performance Objective in a particular Calendar Quarter if Distributor submitted Orders to Manufacturer that meet or exceed its Quarterly Performance Objective and the cause of Distributor’s failure to meet the Quarterly Performance Objective is Manufacturer’s failure to deliver the Products in accordance with its obligations under {Section 8} and {Section 9}.



5.	Additional Duties, Responsibilities and Warranties of Distributor.
Resale.Effort.Sales;Marketing._Sec=<u>Sales and Marketing Activity</u>.  Consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Distributor agrees to use its best commercial efforts to promote the sale of Products to customers within the Territory, including using advertising, mailings and trade shows, consistent with good business ethics and in a manner that will reflect favorably on the Products and on the goodwill and reputation of Manufacturer.

Resale.Limit.Customer._Sec=<u>Authorized Customers</u>.  Distributor shall sell Products only to licensed physicians, hospitals and other Persons who are permitted by applicable law to possess and use the Products in the course of providing patient care services.  Distributor shall comply with the requirements and restrictions of any licenses, permits, approvals and other authorizations that are required within the Territory for Distributor to import, market, sell and distribute the Products and shall not market or promote any Product in any manner that is inconsistent with Manufacturer’s License or the labeling of the Product or for any uses other than approved uses as provided in the “Indications For Use” labeling of the Product, as may be amended from time to time by Manufacturer.  Distributor shall not sell a Product to any Person who resells, or intends to resell, such Product without Manufacturer’s authorization to resell Products.

Duty.Cttr.BusinessStandards._Sec=<u>Business Standards</u>.  As a distributor of Manufacturer’s Products, Distributor shall conduct its business to the highest ethical and business standards in a manner that will reflect favorably on the Products and on the goodwill and reputation of Manufacturer, and Distributor shall not, by word or deed, imply or express any false or misleading statements about Manufacturer or Products.

Resale.Report._Sec=<u>Sales Reports</u>.  Distributor shall provide Manufacturer with a sales report every calendar quarter (each, a “Calendar Quarter”), or such other period as mutually agreed to by the Parties, which shall contain the following information: (a) the amount of total Product sales made by Distributor within the Territory during the immediately preceding Calendar Quarter; (b) the number of new customer accounts established during the immediately preceding Calendar Quarter; (c) the geographical distribution of unit sales during the immediately preceding Calendar Quarter; and (d) such other information as Manufacturer may reasonably request.  Failure to provide a sales report on the date it is due shall not constitute a material breach of this Agreement by Distributor; provided, however, that Distributor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide Manufacturer with any report that is overdue as soon as possible.  Upon request, Distributor shall provide Manufacturer with forecasts of Product sales for purposes of assisting Manufacturer in production planning.

Resale.Advertise;Marketing.Costs;Guidelines._Sec=<u>Advertising and Marketing Costs and Guidelines</u>.  Any advertising, marketing and other promotional activities conducted by Distributor shall be at its sole cost and expense, unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties in writing.  Distributor shall not market or promote any Product in any manner that is inconsistent with the labeling of the Product or for any uses other than approved uses as provided in the “Indications For Use” labeling of the Product, as may be amended from time to time by Manufacturer.  Distributor shall ensure that all of its advertising, promotional and publicity material that identifies the Products complies with all applicable laws.  Distributor shall adhere to Manufacturer’s advertising guidelines, as in effect from time to time, in developing any advertisements, sales catalogs, marketing brochures, or other promotional materials and activities such as participation in trade shows.  Manufacturer will provide marketing and advertising templates in United States English language formats which Distributor may use for the development of local language marketing and advertising materials. Distributor will be responsible for any costs associated with the translation of such materials into local language as well as the local printing of such materials. All marketing materials translated by Distributor must be submitted to Manufacturer for approval prior to use.  Distributor may use its web site to promote Manufacturer’s Products provided that any links to Manufacturer’s web site must be approved in advance by Manufacturer.
Resale.Service._Sec=<u>Service Support</u>.  Distributor shall provide any Product service required by customers in the Territory and shall provide clinical and purchasing support to customers in the Territory for a period of twelve (12) months following the delivery of the Product to the customer, at Distributor’s sole cost and expense; provided, however, that Manufacturer shall bear the expense of any Product replacements that are made in accordance with the limited Product Warranty described in {Section 10}.  Such support to customers within the Territory includes but is not limited to processing service and support requests of customers in the Territory and conducting Product demonstrations.  Distributor shall report immediately to Manufacturer any defects or Product failures or faults that have been detected by Distributor or reported to Distributor by a customer.  Distributor shall comply with applicable provisions of the Medical Device Directive, 93/42/EEC: 1993, including requirements relating to documentation and record keeping for vigilance reporting.  Distributor shall report to Manufacturer any events that could require a vigilance report of which Distributor becomes aware.

Resale.Personnel._Sec=<u>Qualified Personnel</u>.  Distributor shall maintain qualified sales and distribution personnel to perform the sales, marketing, servicing, and support efforts required to satisfy its obligations under this Agreement, and shall ensure proper training of its personnel regarding the Products. 

Resale.Manager._Sec=<u>Product Manager</u>.  Distributor shall appoint and employ throughout the term of this Agreement a product manager (the “Product Manager”) who shall at all times be responsible for overseeing Distributor’s sales, marketing and distribution of Manufacturer’s Products.  The Product Manager’s responsibilities shall include attending Manufacturer’s comprehensive annual training on the Products, which may take place in the United States.  Distributor shall pay all costs and expenses associated with the Product Manager’s attendance at such annual training and other of the Product Manager’s responsibilities.

Resale.Traceability._Sec=<u>Traceability</u>.  Distributor shall cooperate with Manufacturer in the event of any recall or corrective action.  Distributor shall maintain complete distribution records by customer and by lot number for all sales of Products within the Territory for purposes of complying with regulatory requirements.

Duty.Cttr.Permit._Sec=<u>Licenses and Permits</u>.  Distributor shall obtain and maintain at its expense during the term of this Agreement all licenses, permits and other authorizations required by each political jurisdiction within the Territory that are required for Distributor to market, sell and distribute the Products, support its customers and fulfill its other duties in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Duty.Cttr.Import._Sec=<u>Import Regulations</u>.  Distributor shall be responsible for complying with all laws and regulations relating to the importation of the Products into the Territory and for procuring any necessary governmental authorizations for importation, including without limitation any necessary license, approvals, permissions, or consents.
Resale.Customer.Inquiry._Sec=<u>Sales Inquiries</u>.  Distributor shall promptly forward to Manufacturer all inquiries relating to products or potential purchases of products from customers or potential customers outside Distributor’s Territory.

6.	Pricing and Discounts.
Price.Agreed._Sec=<u>Pricing</u>.  Distributor shall purchase, and Manufacturer shall sell to Distributor, the Products ordered by Distributor at the prices set forth in Exhibit A, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with this {Section 6}. 
Price.Promotion._Sec=<u>Promotional Products</u>.  In the first Contract Year, Distributor may purchase up to ______ (_) Products in aggregate at a discount of fifty percent (50%) off the prices set forth in the then-current Exhibit A for Distributor’s use in performing Product demonstrations and promotions (“Promotional Units”).  Any Promotional Units purchased through the Initial Stocking Order shall be counted as Promotional Units purchased in the first Contract Year.
Price.Change._Sec=<u>Price Changes</u>.  Manufacturer shall notify Distributor at least sixty (60) days before any new pricing will become effective.  Manufacturer shall attach to Exhibit A a supplement setting forth the new prices and the effective dates of each price change.  Any Product delivered by Manufacturer to Carrier for shipment to Distributor after the effective date of a price change shall be invoiced at the price in effect at the time the Order was confirmed by Manufacturer in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

Price.Tax._Sec=<u>Taxes and Other Fees</u>.  Taxes are not included in the Product prices set forth in Exhibit A.  Distributor shall pay all applicable sales, use, value-added, excise and any other taxes or customs duties imposed under the authority of any national, state or local taxing jurisdiction.  Distributor shall not reduce any fees or charges owed to Manufacturer as a result of any such taxes or duties.  Distributor shall furnish Manufacturer with a valid tax exemption certificate issued by each taxing jurisdiction or entity where such certificate is required as a condition for the avoidance of applicable sales or use taxes covering any Product to be sold under this Agreement.
Price.Insurance;Freight._Sec=<u>Insurance Costs and Freight Charges</u>.  Manufacturer’s prices do not include freight charges and insurance costs, which shall be at the expense of Distributor.

7.	Submission and Confirmation of Purchase Orders and Changes.
Order.Submit._Sec=<u>Submission of Purchase Orders</u>.  Distributor shall order Products by submitting written or electronic purchase orders (each, an “Order”) signed or otherwise authorized by an authorized representative of Distributor.  Each Order must designate the Products and quantity desired, applicable price, requested delivery dates to Carrier, and specialty shipping instructions, if any.  No terms and conditions of any Order shall be binding on Manufacturer to the extent that such terms and conditions are inconsistent with those contained in this Agreement. 
Order.Confirm._Sec=<u>Confirmation of Purchase Orders</u>.  No Order shall be binding on Manufacturer until confirmed by Manufacturer.  Manufacturer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to acknowledge and confirm Orders within 5 days of receiving the Order and such Order confirmation shall indicate the expected date(s) that Manufacturer will deliver the Order to Carrier.
Order.Change._Sec=<u>Modifications to Orders</u>.  In the event Manufacturer does not confirm an Order, Manufacturer may, within 15 days after receipt of the Order, provide Distributor with notice as to what portion of such Order Manufacturer can accept and what other terms Manufacturer will accept.  Distributor may submit a revised written Order if it agrees to Manufacturer’s terms.

Order.Reschedule;Expedite._Sec=<u>Rescheduling Rights and Expedited Orders</u>.  Distributor may reschedule the delivery of any Order one time for up to thirty (30) days at no charge by providing written notice of such rescheduling at least fourteen (14) days prior to the originally scheduled delivery date; provided, however, that if the rescheduling creates unavoidable costs, such as storage or insurance costs, such costs shall be charged to Distributor.  If Distributor requests an expedited delivery date, Manufacturer shall make reasonable efforts to meet Distributor’s expedited date; provided, however, that any additional costs shall be charged to Distributor and provided that failure to accommodate such requests shall not be considered to be a breach of this Agreement. 

Order.Cancel._Sec=<u>Cancellation of Orders</u>.  Distributor may cancel any Order prior to its receipt of Manufacturer’s Order confirmation at no charge by providing Manufacturer with written notice of such cancellation.  Distributor may cancel a confirmed Order only after obtaining Manufacturer’s written consent to such cancellation; provided, however, that Distributor may be subject to a cancellation or re-stocking fee.

8.	Shipment, Payment and Security Terms.
Ship.Base._Sec=<u>Shipment</u>.  Manufacturer agrees to deliver the Products to the Carrier (as defined below) for shipment to Distributor.  Title and risk for loss or damage shall pass to Distributor upon delivery of Products to the Carrier for shipment to Distributor and any loss or damage thereafter shall not relieve Distributor of any obligation hereunder.  Distributor shall be responsible for selecting and making all arrangements for a carrier (the “Carrier”) to ship the Products from Manufacturer’s warehousing facility, which may be located in the United States or in Europe, to Distributor.  Shipping and insurance charges are at the expense of Distributor, as provided in {Section 6.5}.

Ship.Partial._Sec=<u>Partial Shipments</u>.  If, in the Order confirmation, Manufacturer indicates expected dates for shipment that would result in partial shipments, Distributor may choose to hold delivery until shipment is complete or to accept the partial shipments.

Ship.Delay._Sec=<u>Delay in Shipments</u>.  In the event that Manufacturer will not be able to deliver Products to Carrier on the date specified in the Order, Manufacturer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to so notify Distributor as soon as possible.  Manufacturer shall make reasonable efforts to meet delivery dates confirmed but shall not be liable for any delay in delivery.

Pay.Base._Sec=<u>Payment</u>.  Terms of payment are net thirty (30) days from the date of invoice, provided that the date of invoice is on or after the date that Manufacturer delivers the Products to Carrier, as set forth in {Section 8.1}.  Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at a rate equal to 1.5 percent per month (eighteen percent (18%) per year) or, if lower, at the maximum rate allowed by applicable law.  Manufacturer reserves the right to withhold delivery of additional Products during any period in which Distributor has any amounts outstanding and past due. Such witholding of delivery will not constitute a breach of Manufacturers obligations.
Pay.Currency._Sec=<u>Currency</u>.  Distributor shall make all payments required under this Agreement in United States dollars by wire transfer to an account specified by Manufacturer.  Manufacturer shall be responsible for the banking charges associated with such wire transfer. 

Pay.Secure._Sec=<u>Credit</u>.  Distributor shall obtain, and maintain during the term of this Agreement, a bank warranty, standing letter of credit or similar instrument made in favor of Manufacturer by a bank or other financial institution reasonably acceptable to Manufacturer upon terms reasonably acceptable to Manufacturer to assure payment of amounts payable to Manufacturer by Distributor under this Agreement.

BuySell.Return._Sec=<u>Return of Goods</u>.  No return of Products by Distributor to Manufacturer (“Returns”) will be authorized or accepted by Manufacturer except as provided in {Section 10.1}.
9.	Additional Responsibilities and Obligations of Manufacturer. 

Duty.Pcpl.BuySell.Perform._Sec=<u>Prompt Processing and Production</u>.  Manufacturer shall make commercially reasonable efforts to process all confirmed Orders and produce and deliver promptly the quantity of Products necessary to fill the Orders submitted by Distributor.

Duty.Pcpl.Train._Sec=<u>Initial Training of Distributor’s Personnel</u>.  Within the first three (3) months of the Effective Date, Manufacturer shall provide training to Distributor’s sales and service personnel for the sale and service of the Products.  All costs and expenses of Manufacturer’s employees in connection with providing such initial training shall be paid by Manufacturer, and all costs and expenses of Distributor’s employees in connection with participating in such training shall be paid by Distributor.  Training shall be held in an adequately equipped facility provided for by the Distributor.

Duty.Pcpl.Support._Sec=<u>On-going Support</u>.  Manufacturer, either directly or through one of its Subsidiaries, shall provide ongoing training to Distributor’s personnel as is reasonably necessary for the sale and service of the Products and shall provide Distributor with support and service documentation, such as service manuals or operating instructions.
Duty.Pcpl.Promotion._Sec=<u>Promotional Materials and Programs</u>.  Manufacturer may from time to time supply Distributor with printed advertising and promotional materials for distribution to customers and potential customers within the Territory to stimulate sales.  Manufacturer shall retain title to and continue to own all such catalogs and literature, and Distributor agrees to return all undistributed catalogs and literature to Manufacturer on the termination or expiration of this Agreement.  Manufacturer shall provide Distributor with any sales lead information pertaining to customers in the Territory that may be obtained through Manufacturer’s marketing and promotional programs.  Notwithstanding the provisions of {Section 3.1}, Distributor acknowledges and agrees that: (a) Manufacturer may participate directly in international and European trade shows in the Territory and in other marketing and promotional events in the Territory which are intended to attract potential customers from outside the Territory and from within the Territory; and (b) Manufacturer’s web site may be accessible to customers within the Territory.
Duty.Pcpl.USExportLaw._Sec=<u>United States Export Controls</u>.  Distributor shall be responsible for satisfaction of any United States export license restrictions and other export requirements that apply to the export or re-export of the Products.  Distributor shall procure any necessary governmental authorizations, including without limitation any necessary licenses, approvals, permissions, or consents, where necessary for re-exportation of the Products.  Distributor shall cooperate with Manufacturer in executing any other documents or licenses necessary for Manufacturer to comply with the export or other applicable laws of the United States and any other jurisdiction.


10.	Product Warranty.

RepWar.Product.Base._Sec=<u>Product Quality and Warranty</u>.  Manufacturer grants to Distributor the limited warranties contained in the warranty terms for the Products, as modified from time to time by Manufacturer (“Product Warranty”).  A copy of the current limited Product Warranty is attached as Exhibit C to this Agreement.  Manufacturer reserves the right to modify the Product Warranty from time to time and shall notify Distributor of any material changes thereto.  In the event of a problem warranted in the Product Warranty, Manufacturer shall accept return of the Product prior to the Product expiration date, at its expense and its risk of loss during shipment, and, in its sole discretion, shall replace the Products or refund the net purchase price to the customer or Distributor, as provided for in the then-current Product Warranty.  Manufacturer’s obligations under the limited Product Warranty do not extend to a Product where the sterile integrity of the package has been compromised by Distributor or a customer, or where the Product is used after the Product expiration date.  Manufacturer is not responsible for breaches of the Product Warranty caused by use, operation or storage not in accordance with Manufacturer’s instructions, or unauthorized modification of a Product.

RepWar.Product.Disclaim._Sec=<u>WARRANTY DISCLAIMER</u>.  MANUFACTURER MAKES NO OTHER WARRANTIES TO DISTRIBUTOR OR CUSTOMERS OR ANY OTHER PERSON WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES PROVIDED HEREUNDER, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND MANUFACTURER SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO STATEMENTS OF QUALITY, SUITABILITY FOR USE OR PERFORMANCE, WHETHER MADE BY EMPLOYEES OF MANUFACTURER OR DISTRIBUTOR, SHALL BE CONSIDERED A WARRANTY BY MANUFACTURER FOR ANY PURPOSE OR CREATE ANY LIABILITY OF MANUFACTURER, AND IN NO EVENT SHALL MANUFACTURER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.

RepWar.Product.Cttr.Modify._Sec=<u>No Modification of Product Warranty</u>.  Distributor shall not modify or supplement the limited Product Warranty included in Manufacturer’s standard packaging without the express written consent of an authorized representative of Manufacturer, and Distributor may not provide any additional warranty to any customer that is binding on Manufacturer.  Distributor shall indemnify and hold Manufacturer harmless from all liabilities, claims, damages and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, that may be incurred by Manufacturer during or after the term of this Agreement that result from or arise out of Distributor’s failure to comply with the terms of this {Section 10.3}.
11.	Intellectual Property.
IP.TM;TradeName._Sec=<u>Trademarks and Trade Names</u>.  Distributor and Manufacturer recognize that the other Party owns certain trademarks, trade names, service marks, and Internet domain names that identify the other Party and its products, and each Party acknowledges that it has no ownership right or interest in the trademarks, trade names, service marks, and Internet domain names of the other Party.
IP.TM.License._Sec=<u>Use of Licensed Marks</u>. <ol><li>Manufacturer hereby grants Distributor a nonexclusive, nontransferable license, with no right to sublicense, to use the Licensed Marks solely in connection with the marketing, distribution, sale and support of the Products within the Territory in accordance with this Agreement.</li><li>“Licensed Marks” means the trademarks, trade names, names, brands, logos, symbols and other proprietary designations of Manufacturer as set forth on Exhibit D and as may be developed by Manufacturer to identify the source and quality of the Products.  Distributor shall use the Licensed Marks, and no other names or marks, to identify the Products in connection with the marketing, distribution, sale and support of the Products by Distributor under this Agreement. </li><li>Distributor shall submit to Manufacturer copies of any promotional materials and other materials it plans to distribute to or make available to customers, including any advertisements, pamphlets, stationery, signs or web sites, containing any of the Licensed Marks before any use or distribution of such materials for Manufacturer’s review to assure compliance with applicable United States, European Union and other laws and regulations and the terms of this Agreement. </li><li> Except as expressly provided for in this Agreement, Distributor shall have no other right to use any of the Licensed Marks, or any derivative or partial use thereof, or any other trade names, trademarks, service marks, Internet domain names, logos, symbols or indicia of proprietary designations of Manufacturer or any of its Affiliates.  Distributor shall not merge, co-join, or use any Licensed Mark in conjunction with any other trade names, trademarks, service marks, logos, symbols or indicia, including but not limited to Distributor’s trade names or trademarks. </li><li>The Licensed Marks, and any reputation and goodwill in them, are, and will remain, the exclusive property of Manufacturer, and Distributor does not have and will not in the future have, any right to use such Licensed Marks other than through this Agreement.  All use of the Licensed Marks shall inure solely to the benefit of Manufacturer.  Distributor shall not: (a) use the Licensed Marks, or any word, symbol or design confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks or other Manufacturer marks, as part of its corporate or legal name or in connection with any product sold by Distributor; (b) do or suffer to be done any act or thing which will in any way impair the rights of Manufacturer in and to any Licensed Mark; (c) apply for any registration of any trademark or other designation which includes in whole or in part any Licensed Mark or which otherwise would affect the ownership of any Licensed Mark, nor file any document with any governmental authority to take any action that would affect the ownership of any Licensed Mark; or (d) acquire or claim any title to any Licensed Mark adverse to Manufacturer by virtue of the rights granted to Distributor or through Distributor’s use of such Licensed Mark. </li><li>Distributor shall notify Manufacturer immediately of any adverse use of marks by any Person that is confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks, and of any infringement, imitation or passing off of the Licensed Marks, by any Person that comes to Distributor’s attention.</li></ol>
IP.Product._Sec=<u>Intellectual Property</u>.  Distributor acknowledges that all patents, copyrights, design rights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights in or related to the Products shall remain the exclusive ownership of Manufacturer.
12.	Confidentiality. 
Conf.Def._Def=“Confidential Information” shall mean all information disclosed to a Party (for purposes of this {Section 12}, “Recipient”) by the other Party (for purposes of this {Section 12}, “Discloser”) or its agents or employees in any manner, whether orally, visually or in tangible form (including documents, devices and computer readable media) and all copies thereof, whether created by Discloser or Recipient.  “Confidential Information” shall also include this Agreement, including all provisions, terms and Exhibits.
Conf.Impart._Sec=<u>Imparting</u>. Tangible materials that disclose or embody Confidential Information shall be marked by Discloser as "Confidential," "Proprietary" or the substantial equivalent thereof.  Confidential Information that is disclosed orally or visually shall be identified by Discloser as confidential at the time of disclosure and reduced to a written summary by Discloser, who shall mark such summary as "Confidential," "Proprietary" or the substantial equivalent thereof and deliver it to Recipient by the end of the month following the month in which disclosure occurs.
Conf.Except._Sec=<u>Exceptions</u>. Confidential Information shall not include any information that Recipient can demonstrate:  (a) was in Recipient's possession prior to disclosure by Discloser under this Agreement; (b) was generally known, in the trade or business in which it is practiced by Discloser, at the time of disclosure to Recipient under this Agreement, or becomes so generally known after such disclosure, through no act of Recipient or its employees, agents or independent contractors; (c) has come into the possession of Recipient from a third party who is not known by Recipient to be under any obligation to Discloser to maintain the confidentiality of such information; or (d) was developed by Recipient independently of and without reference to Confidential Information or information that Discloser has disclosed in confidence to any third party.
Conf.Engage._Sec=<u>Not Disclose</u>.  Except as expressly permitted by this Agreement or as necessary to satisfy its obligations under this Agreement, Recipient shall not disclose Confidential Information and shall prevent the disclosure of such information by Recipient's employees and agents.  Recipient shall disclose Confidential Information only to those of its employees, agents and independent contractors who have a need to know such information for the purpose of Recipient satisfying its obligations under this Agreement.  Recipient shall use Confidential Information solely for the purpose of satisfying its obligations under this Agreement.  Each Party agrees that the restrictions under this {Section 12} will continue to apply after this Agreement terminates or expires, regardless of the reason for such termination or expiration.
Conf.Except.Compelled._Sec=<u>Compelled Disclosure</u>.  In the event that Recipient is ordered to disclose Discloser's Confidential Information pursuant to a judicial or governmental request, requirement or order, Recipient shall immediately notify Discloser and take reasonable steps to assist Discloser in contesting such request, requirement or order or otherwise protecting Discloser's rights.
Upon termination of this Agreement (or upon demand by Discloser), Recipient shall return promptly to Discloser or destroy, at Discloser's option, all tangible materials that disclose or embody Confidential Information.
Conf.Remedy.Injunct._Sec=<u>Injunctions</u> The Parties acknowledge that it will be impossible to measure the damages that would be suffered by Discloser if Recipient fails to comply with this Agreement and that, in the event of any such failure, Discloser will not have an adequate remedy at law.  Discloser shall, therefore, be entitled in addition to any other rights and remedies to obtain specific performance of Recipient's obligations under this {Section 12} and to obtain immediate injunctive relief without having to post a bond.  Recipient shall not urge, as a defense to any proceeding for such specific performance or injunctive relief, that Discloser has an adequate remedy at law.
13.	Indemnification.
Indemn.IP.Pcpl._Sec=<u>Intellectual Property Indemnification by Manufacturer</u>.  Manufacturer shall indemnify and hold Distributor harmless from and against any damages awarded in actions against Distributor based upon a finding that the Products infringe any patent rights of a third party in the Territory, provided that Distributor gives Manufacturer timely notice of the claim and the opportunity to assume sole control of the defense and settlement and provided further that Distributor does not settle such a claim without Manufacturer’s prior written consent.  The foregoing provision does not apply to infringements caused by Distributor’s unauthorized use or modification of the Product or its use in combination with other products.  In no event shall Manufacturer’s indemnification of Distributor exceed the amounts paid by Distributor to Manufacturer for the allegedly infringing Product.  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines, or Manufacturer concludes in its discretion that a risk exists for a determination, that a Product infringes the rights of a third party, Manufacturer shall have, at its option, the right: (a) to procure for Distributor and its customers the right to continue using and selling the Product; (b) to replace the Product with a non-infringing product; (c) to modify the Product so that it becomes non-infringing; or (d) to require the return of the Product to Manufacturer against a refund of payments made by Distributor to Manufacturer.  The foregoing sets forth the entire liability of Manufacturer for intellectual property infringement. 

Indemn.General._Sec=<u>Indemnification</u>.  Each Party (the “Indemnifying Party”) hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the other Party and its Affiliates and their respective shareholders, officers, directors and employees (the “Indemnified Parties”) harmless for any loss, claim, damage, cost, expense (including reasonable attorney's fees) or liability arising out of the negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnifying Party or any of its employees or agents or a breach by the Indemnifying Party of any of its obligations under this Agreement.  The provisions of this {Section 13.2} shall survive termination of this Agreement.
14.	Term.
Term.Base._Sec=<u>Agreed Term</u>.  The term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and end on {Term.End}, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of {Section 15} or another provision of this Agreement.  The “Termination Date” shall be the effective date of termination under this Agreement.
15.	Termination.
Term.Stop.Reciprocal._Sec=<u>Termination by Either Party</u>.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, either Party may terminate this Agreement: (a) for cause upon the material breach of any obligation or responsibility by the other Party which breach remains uncured for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof; or (b) immediately and without the necessity for notice, upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or similar filing by or against the other Party.  A material breach by Distributor under this Agreement includes but is not limited to the following: (u) failure of Distributor to make any payment when due; (v) failure of Distributor to meet its Minimum Purchase Commitment during the prior Contract Year; (w) failure of Distributor to meet its Quarterly Performance Objectives for two consecutive Calendar Quarters in a Contract Year; (x) Distributor’s breach of its Territory Commitment; (y) Distributor’s use of Manufacturer’s trademarks, trade names or service marks in a manner not in accordance with this Agreement; and (z) any action by Distributor, by word or deed, that implies or expresses any false or misleading statements about Manufacturer or the Products. 
Term.After._Sec=<u>Post-Termination Obligations</u>.  Except in the event of termination for breach by Distributor, Manufacturer shall process in the ordinary course of business all Orders submitted by Distributor prior to the written notice of termination.  Termination of this Agreement shall not prevent or excuse either Party from settling accounts, collecting funds, or engaging in any activity necessary to bring successfully to completion any transaction outstanding at the time of the termination or expiration of this Agreement.  Immediately after termination, Distributor shall remove from any catalogs, price lists or other media employed or used by Distributor any and all references to Manufacturer and Manufacturer’s Products and shall cease to use any trademarks or trade names of Manufacturer or the Products.  Unsold Products shall be returned in accordance with {Section 8.7}.  The provisions of {Sections 10, 12, 13, 15.2, 15.3, 16, 17, 18.6, 18.7 and 18.8} shall survive termination of this Agreement.

Term.Remedy._Sec=<u>Remedies for Termination</u>.  Except as specifically provided for in this Agreement, neither Party shall be liable to the other for any claim or damage arising from a termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, including without limitation any incidental or consequential damages or any compensation or reimbursement for loss of anticipated sales, prospective profits or goodwill associated with either Party’s business; provided, however, that the termination of this Agreement shall not relieve either Party of liability arising before the effective date of the termination, including, without limitation, liability for Product payments due.  DISTRIBUTOR HEREBY SPECIFICALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO RECEIVE COMPENSATION OR OTHER PAYMENT ON OR RESULTING FROM THE TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT BY OPERATION OF THE LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTION OR OTHERWISE EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED FOR IN THIS AGREEMENT.

Remedy.Liab.Limit._Sec=<u>Limitation of Liability.</u>.<p>NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING ELSE IN THIS AGREEMENT OR OTHERWISE, MANUFACTURER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER MANUFACTURER WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY FOR SUCH DAMAGES, FOR ANY PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOSS OF REVENUE OR LOST PROFIT) OR SIMILAR COMMERCIAL INDEMNITY.
17.	Alternative Dispute Resolution.
Dispute.ADR._Sec=<u>Dispute Resolution</u>.  In the event of any dispute, claim, question or disagreement (each, a "Dispute") arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the obligations of the Parties hereunder, the Parties shall use all reasonable efforts to settle the Dispute.  If these efforts are unsuccessful, either Party may escalate the Dispute to their respective chief executive officers by giving a “Notice of Dispute” to the other Party.  Thereafter, the chief executive officers of the Parties shall confer promptly and attempt to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.

Dispute.Arb._Sec=<u>Arbitration</u>.  If the chief executive officers of the Parties are unable to settle any Dispute within thirty (30) days after the date of the Notice of Dispute, the Dispute shall be referred to and exclusively and finally resolved by binding arbitration under the {Dispute.Arb.Rules} which rules are incorporated herein by reference.  The arbitration panel shall consist of three members.  Each Party shall nominate one member of the panel.  The two members shall agree on the third arbitrator within thirty (30) days.  If the two arbitrators are unable to agree on the third, the {Dispute.Arb.Institute} shall appoint the third arbitrator.  The language to be used in the arbitral proceeding shall be English and all arbitral proceedings shall be conducted in {Dispute.Arb.Hearing.Place}.  The arbitrators shall apply the laws of {Dispute.Law.State.the}.  Each Party shall bear its own costs associated with the resolution or arbitration of any Dispute, and all fees and other costs of the arbitration proceeding shall be shared equally between the Parties.  Nothing in this arbitration clause shall prevent either Party from seeking a pre-award attachment of assets or preliminary relief to enforce intellectual property rights or confidentiality obligations under {Section 11} and {Section 12} of this Agreement, in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to an award on the merits by the arbitration panel.

18.	General Provisions.
Misc.Relate._Sec=<u>Relationship of the Parties</u>.  The Parties are and shall remain independent contractors.  Distributor shall conduct all of its business in its own name and shall pay all expenses of its office and activities and be solely responsible for the acts and expenses of its employees.  Distributor shall purchase and resell the Products for its own account and at its own risk.  This Agreement does not constitute a partnership or establish either Party as the agent, franchisee or legal representative of the other for any purpose, and neither Party has the authority to act for, bind or make commitments on behalf of the other, except as specifically provided for in this Agreement.  Distributor hereby releases any claims that Manufacturer has violated any franchise disclosure or other franchisor obligation in connection with the creation of this Agreement.

Misc.Majeure._Sec=<u>Force Majeure</u>.  Neither Distributor nor Manufacturer shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement because of events beyond its reasonable control and which were not reasonably foreseeable at the time of signing this Agreement, including but not limited to strikes, riots, war, fire, acts of God, acts of government, supplier delays, and breakdown or general unavailability of materials or transportation facilities.
Misc.Entire;Amend._Sec=<u>Entire Agreement and Amendment</u>.  This Agreement, including its Exhibits, schedules and attachments, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to its subject matter and cancels and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and arrangements, whether written or oral, between the Parties with respect to such subject matter.  No amendment, modification or waiver of the terms of this Agreement, or any of its Exhibits, schedules or attachments (except as otherwise provided in this Agreement) will be binding on either Party unless reduced to writing and signed by an authorized representative of the Party to be bound.
Misc.Performance_by_Manufacturer._Sec=<u>Performance by Manufacturer</u>.  Any of Manufacturer’s obligations to be performed under this Agreement may be performed by any Subsidiary or Affiliate of Manufacturer.
Misc.Assign._Sec=<u>Assignment</u>.  Neither Party may assign, delegate, or subcontract its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party; provided, however, that Manufacturer may assign all or any part of this Agreement without Distributor’s consent to an Affiliate of Manufacturer or to an entity that acquires the business of Manufacturer (or the portion of Manufacturer’s business that relates to the manufacturing of the Products) through a sale, merger, asset transfer or other corporate transaction.
Misc.Language._Sec=<u>Language of the Agreement</u>.  This English language version of this Agreement controls the relationship between the Parties and shall be valid and enforceable notwithstanding any law applicable to Distributor or the Territory requiring that it be written in or translated into another language.  Distributor hereby represents to Manufacturer that Distributor has made appropriate investigation and concludes that no law impairs the validity or controlling nature of this English language version and understands and accepts that Manufacturer is relying on this representation.  Distributor waives any right that it may have under any such law and agrees not to challenge this English language version. 
Dispute.Law;Jurisd;Venue._Sec=<u>Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue</u>.  Subject to the terms of {Section 17}, this Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of {Dispute.Law.State.the} of the United States without giving effect to any conflict or choice of laws principle or rule that might otherwise cause the law of some other jurisdiction to govern, and the Parties agree that the 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to or affect any term of this Agreement.  This Agreement is deemed to have been executed by the Parties in {Dispute.Law.State.the}.
Misc.Sever._Sec=<u>Severability</u>.  If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or inoperative, either in whole or in part, such provision shall be deemed to be severable and the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
Misc.Waive._Sec=<u>No Waiver</u>.  A Party’s forebearance to insist on performance of, or waiver of a breach of, any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not be construed as waiving such terms or conditions or as a relinquishment of such Party’s right to insist on strict performance by the other Party thereafter, and all the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect as if no forbearance or waiver had occurred.
Misc.Heading._Sec=<u>Headings</u>.  The headings of this Agreement have been included solely for reference and are to have no force or effect in interpreting its provisions. 
Misc.Counterpart._Sec=<u>Counterparts</u>.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, any of which may bear the signature of one or more Parties, but all of which taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Misc.Notice._Sec=<u>Notices</u>.  Any notice provided for or concerning this Agreement must be in writing and shall be deemed given or made when delivered by certified or registered mail with return receipt or by facsimile machine, in accordance with the following instructions:{Model_Agt_Notice.Pcpl;Cttr._Block} A Party may change the instructions for notices from time to time, by proper notice to the other Party, which shall be effective not sooner than thirty (30) days thereafter.

Section 2.2=Section 2.2
Section 6.2=Section 7.2
Section 8=Section 9
Section 9=Section 10
Section 10=Section 11
Section 6=Section 7
Section 6.5=Section 7.5
Section 8.1=Section 9.1
Section 10.1=Section 11.1
Section 3.1=Section 4.1
Section 10.3=Section 11.3
Section 12=Section 11
Section 13.2=Section 14.2
Section 15=Section 16
Section 8.7=Section 9.7
Sections 10, 12, 13, 15.2, 15.3, 16, 17, 18.6, 18.7 and 18.8=Sections 11, 13, 14, 16.2, 16.3, 17, 18, 19.6, 19.7 and 19.8
Section 11=Section 12
Section 17=Section 18


Model Distribution Agt Outline

<field>
Model.Root=List of sections in Distribution Agreement<ol><li>{Agt._Sec.S}</li></ol>

Agt._Sec.S=<ol><li>{Def._Sec}</li><li>{Relate.Appoint._Sec}</li><li>{Product._Sec}</li><li>{Relate.Exclusive._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Minimum._Sec}</li><li>{Duty;RepWar.Cttr._Sec}</li><li>{Price._Sec}</li><li>{Order._Sec}</li><li>{Ship._Sec}</li><li>{Pay;Secure._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Pcpl._Sec}</li><li>{RepWar.Pcpl.Product._Sec}</li><li>{IP._Sec}</li><li>{Conf._Sec}</li><li>{Indemn._Sec}</li><li>{Term._Sec}</li><li>{Remedy.Liab.Limit._Sec}</li><li>{Dispute._Sec}</li><li>{Misc._Sec}</li></ol>

Def._Sec=<u>Definitions</u>.<ul><li>{Affiliate._Def}</li><li>{days._Def}</li><li>{Intended_Uses._Def}</li><li>{Person._Def}</li><li>{Subsidiary._Def}</li><li>{Def.Xref.Table._Sec}</li></ul>

Relate.Appoint._Sec=<u>Appointment of Distributor</u>.<ol><li>{Appoint._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Territory.Outside._Sec}</li></ol>

Product._Sec=<u>Products</u>.<ol><li>{Product.Discontinue._Sec}</li><li>{Product.Add._Sec}</li><li>{Product.Modify._Sec}</li><li>{Product.Package._Sec}</li></ol>

Relate.Exclusive._Sec=<u>Exclusivity</u>.<ol><li>{Relate.Exclusive.Engage._Sec}</li><li>{Relate.Exclusive.Stop._Sec}</li></ol>

BuySell.Minimum._Sec=<u>Minimum Purchasing Obligations</u>.<ol><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Initial._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Annual._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Quarter._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Minimum.Orders._Sec}</li></ol>

Duty;RepWar.Cttr._Sec=<u>Additional Duties, Responsibilities and Warranties of Distributor</u>.<ol><li>{Resale.Effort.Sales;Marketing._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Limit.Customer._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Cttr.BusinessStandards._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Report._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Advertise;Marketing.Costs;Guidelines._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Service._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Personnel._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Manager._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Traceability._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Cttr.Permit._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Cttr.Import._Sec}</li><li>{Resale.Customer.Inquiry._Sec}</li></ol>

Price._Sec=<u>Pricing and Discounts</u>.<ol><li>{Price.Agreed._Sec}</li><li>{Price.Promotion._Sec}</li><li>{Price.Change._Sec}</li><li>{Price.Tax._Sec}</li><li>{Price.Insurance;Freight._Sec}</li></ol>

Order._Sec=<u>Submission and Confirmation of Purchase Orders and Changes</u>.<ol><li>{Order.Submit._Sec}</li><li>{Order.Confirm._Sec}</li><li>{Order.Change._Sec}</li><li>{Order.Reschedule;Expedite._Sec}</li><li>{Order.Cancel._Sec}</li></ol>

Ship._Sec=<u>Shipment Terms</u>.<ol><li>{Ship.Base._Sec}</li><li>{Ship.Partial._Sec}</li><li>{Ship.Delay._Sec}</li></ol>

Pay;Secure._Sec=<u>Payment and Security Terms</u>.<ol><li>{Pay.Base._Sec}</li><li>{Pay.Currency._Sec}</li><li>{Pay.Secure._Sec}</li><li>{BuySell.Return._Sec}</li></ol>

Duty.Pcpl._Sec=<u>Additional Responsibilities and Obligations of Manufacturer</u>.<ol><li>{Duty.Pcpl.BuySell.Perform._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Pcpl.Train._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Pcpl.Support._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Pcpl.Promotion._Sec}</li><li>{Duty.Pcpl.USExportLaw._Sec}</li></ol>

RepWar.Pcpl.Product._Sec=<u>Product Warranty</u>.<ol><li>{RepWar.Product.Base._Sec}</li><li>{RepWar.Product.Disclaim._Sec}</li><li>{RepWar.Product.Cttr.Modify._Sec}</li></ol>

IP._Sec=<u>Intellectual Property</u>.<ol><li>{IP.TM;TradeName._Sec}</li><li>{IP.TM.License._Sec}</li><li>{IP.Product._Sec}</li></ol>

Conf._Sec=<u>Confidentiality</u>.<ol><li>{Conf.Def._Def}</li><li>{Conf.Impart._Sec}</li><li>{Conf.Except._Sec}</li><li>{Conf.Engage._Sec}</li><li>{Conf.Except.Compelled._Sec}</li><li>{Conf.Remedy.Injunct._Sec}</li></ol>

Indemn._Sec=<u>Indemnification</u>.<ol><li>{Indemn.IP.Pcpl._Sec}</li><li>{Indemn.General._Sec}</li></ol>

Term._Sec=<u>Term and Termination</u>.<ol><li>{Term.Base._Sec}</li><li>{Term.Stop.Reciprocal._Sec}</li><li>{Term.After._Sec}</li><li>{Term.Remedy._Sec}</li></ol>

Dispute._Sec=<u>Alternative Dispute Resolution</u>.<ol><li>{Dispute.ADR._Sec}</li><li>{Dispute.Arb._Sec}</li></ol>

Misc._Sec=<u>General Provisions</u>.<ol><li>{Misc.Relate._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Majeure._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Entire;Amend._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Performance_by_Manufacturer._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Assign._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Language._Sec}</li><li>{Dispute.Law;Jurisd;Venue._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Sever._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Waive._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Heading._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Counterpart._Sec}</li><li>{Misc.Notice._Sec}</li></ol>


US.Simple=continental United States
US.Medium={US.Simple} including Alaska and Hawaii
US.Large={US.Simple} including Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico
US.XLarge={US.Large} and the United States possessions and territories